= Bicho

* http://github.com/dmacvicar/bicho

== Introduction

Library to access bugzilla and command line tool.

Its main goal is to be clean and provide a command line tool
that exposes its features.

== Features

Main use case is report generation, therefore only the following
features are implemented right now:

* get bugs
* search bugs

Plugins can be written to deal with specific bugzilla installations.

== Example (API)

=== Client API

    require 'bicho'

    server = Bicho::Client.new('http://bugzilla.gnome.org')
    server.get_bugs(127043).each do |bug|
      puts bug.summary
      puts bug.url
    end

You can give more than one bug or a named query, or both:

    server.get_bugs(127043, 432423) => [....]
    server.get_bugs("Named list") => [....]
    server.get_bugs("Named list", 4423443) => [....]

=== ActiveRecord-like API

To use the ActiveRecord like interface over the +Bug+ class, you need first
to set the Bicho common client:

    require 'bicho'

    Bicho.client = Bicho::Client.new('https://bugzilla.gnome.org')

    Bicho::Bug.where(product: 'vala', status: 'resolved').each do |bug|
      # .. do something with bug
    end

    Or alternatively:

    Bicho::Bug.where.product('vala').status('resolved').each do |bug|
      # .. do something with bug
    end

== Example (CLI)

    bicho -b http://bugzilla.gnome.org show 127043

    bicho -b https://bugzilla.gnome.org search --summary "crash"

    bicho -b https://bugzilla.gnome.org search --help

== Extending Bicho

=== Commands

See the +Command+ class to implement more commands.

== Known issues

* For now bugs respond to the bugs attributtes described in
http://www.bugzilla.org/docs/tip/en/html/api/Bugzilla/WebService/Bug.html, I intend to make those real attributes.
* There is no check if an API is supported on the server side

== Roadmap

* Define the plugin hooks, right now there is one :-)
* Shortcuts for the bugzilla URL (bicho -b bko search ..), a plugin?

== Authors

* Duncan Mac-Vicar P. <dmacvicar@suse.de>

== License

Copyright (c) 2011 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH.

Bicho is licensed under the MIT license. See MIT-LICENSE for details.
